#### What is a Linux Shell?
An application running on top of the kernel and provides a
command line interface to the system.
- Types: `sh, ksh, bash, csh, tcsh`
#### What can you do with a shell?
- Check the current shell you are using:
```bash
echo $0
```
or
```bash
echo $SHELL
```
- List available shells on the system:
```bash
cat /etc/shells
```
- Change to another shell by typing its name:
```bash
sh
```
- `wget` to get online files:
```bash
wget https://example.com/file.tar.gz
```
- Compile and Run applications
```bash
gcc hello.c -o hello
./hello
```
- ==Automation of an entire script of commands==
---
#### Script:
a program written for a software environment to automate
execution of tasks.
- When the script is executed, those commands will be executed
one line at a time automatically, which means that shell script is interpreted, not compiled.
##### When NOT to use Shell Scripting:
- Tasks where speed is a factor (sorting, hashing, recursion,...)
- Heavy-duty math operations (use C++ or FORTRAN instead)
- Complex applications (where structured programming is a
necessity)
- Extensive file operations required (Bash is limited to serial file
access)
- Need native support for multi-dimensional arrays, data structures
- Need to use libraries
##### Interactive Shell
The user can interact with the shell from the terminal.
##### Non-interactive Shell
A shell running a script is always a non-interactive shell.
##### Subshell
is a child process launched by a shell (or shell script).
- Examples:
	1. Running a shell script launches a new process, a subshell.
	2. Calling another shell (e.g. bash) from an interactive shell.